README.md, before:

**NOTE: This is a Proof of Concept.  This is not production ready.**

# Algolia Launch Extension
The Algolia Launch Extension adds the Algolia Search Insights to the Adobe Launch Platform.  This extension has two actions, "Click after Search" or "Convert after Search".

## Resources
- [Send Insights Events](https://www.algolia.com/doc/guides/building-search-ui/going-further/send-insights-events/js/)
- [Sending Insights Events](https://www.algolia.com/doc/guides/sending-events/implementing/how-to/sending-events-backend/)

## Prerequisites

1. The Algolia Insights library needs to be loaded and an insight middleware needs to be created.
```
var ALGOLIA_INSIGHTS_SRC = "https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/npm/search-insights@2.2.1";

!function(e,a,t,n,s,i,c){e.AlgoliaAnalyticsObject=s,e[s]=e[s]||function(){
(e[s].queue=e[s].queue||[]).push(arguments)},i=a.createElement(t),c=a.getElementsByTagName(t)[0],
i.async=1,i.src=n,c.parentNode.insertBefore(i,c)
}(window,document,"script",ALGOLIA_INSIGHTS_SRC,"aa");

const insightsMiddleware = instantsearch.middlewares.createInsightsMiddleware({
  insightsClient: window.aa,
});
```
https://www.algolia.com/doc/api-client/methods/insights/

2. Add middleware to the Instant Search instance.
```
const search = instantsearch({
  indexName: 'ADXCFDSS',
  searchClient,
});

search.use(insightsMiddleware);
```

## Actions
The two actions for this extension requires changes on the search and product detail experience.

### Click after Search

1. "Click after Search" action requires dataset to be added to each search hit.  Below is an example:
```
<div class="hit-card"
    data-insights-object-id="${hit.objectID}"
    data-insights-position="${hit.__position}"
    data-insights-query-id="${hit.__queryID}">
    <h4 class="hit-name">...</h4>
    <div class="hit-card-foot">
        <div class="hit-card-foot-link">
            <a href="product.html?objectID=${hit.objectID}&amp;queryID=${hit.__queryID}">Read More</a></div>
    </div>
</div>
```

2. In the configuration in the Adobe Launch Console, add the following:
- Event Name: Any name to identifies the event.
- CSS Class Name of the HTML DOM element that contains the dataset.

### Convert after Search
1. "Convert after Search" action requires two query params added to the url. Below is an example:

```
<a href="product.html?objectID=${hit.objectID}&amp;queryID=${hit.__queryID}">Read More</a></div>
```

2. In the configuration in the Adobe Launch Console, add the following:
- Event Name: Any name to identifies the event.
- CSS Class Name of the HTML DOM element that contains the dataset.

*This is a POC and it is not intended to be supported or maintained by Algolia*.

## Development & Release
For development and release process, you can refer to the [Adobe Launch Extension development page](https://experienceleague.adobe.com/docs/experience-platform/tags/extension-dev/submit/develop.html).

### Scaffold
The command provides a way to add actions, data elements, and events assets.
```
npx @adobe/reactor-scaffold
```

### Sandbox
The command starts a local development environment for Launch extension development.
```
npx @adobe/reactor-sandbox
```

### Packager
The command packages the Launch extension places the file at the root of the folder.
```
npx @adobe/reactor-packager
```

### Upload
The command uploads the package to the targeted Adobe Launch service in Adobe IO.
```
npx @adobe/reactor-uploader --private-key=<LOCATION of PRIVATE-KEY> --org-id=<ORG-ID> --tech-account-id=<TEST-ACCOUNT-ID> --api-key=<API-KEY> --client-secret=<CLIENT-SECRET>
```

### Release
The command releases the package to be installed for use.
```
npx @adobe/reactor-releaser --private-key=<LOCATION of PRIVATE-KEY> --org-id=<ORG-ID> --tech-account-id=<TEST-ACCOUNT-ID> --api-key=<API-KEY> --client-secret=<CLIENT-SECRET>
```

Commit message:

Update the extension to include all three events
* feat: add viewed event
* refactor: update clicked and converted event
* feat: add session storage data element
* docs: update README

README.md, after:

# Algolia Launch Extension
The Algolia Launch Extension adds the Algolia Search Insights to the Adobe Launch Platform.  This extension has three actions "Viewed", "Clicked", or "Converted".
If queryId is set on a event type "Clicked" and "Converted", the event type will be changed to "Clicked after Search" or "Converted after Search".

## Resources
- [Send click and conversion events with InstantSearch.js](https://www.algolia.com/doc/guides/building-search-ui/going-further/send-insights-events/js/)
- [Get started with click and conversion events](https://www.algolia.com/doc/guides/sending-events/implementing/how-to/sending-events-backend/)

## Prerequisites

1. Add middleware to the Instant Search instance.
```
const search = instantsearch({
  indexName: 'ADXCFDSS',
  searchClient,
});

search.use(insightsMiddleware);
```

## Actions
The two actions for this extension requires changes on the search and product detail experience.

### Click after Search

1. "Click after Search" action requires dataset to be added to each search hit.  Below is an example:
```
<div class="hit-card"
    data-insights-object-id="${hit.objectID}"
    data-insights-position="${hit.__position}"
    data-insights-query-id="${hit.__queryID}">
    <h4 class="hit-name">...</h4>
    <div class="hit-card-foot">
        <div class="hit-card-foot-link">
            <a href="product.html?objectID=${hit.objectID}&amp;queryID=${hit.__queryID}">Read More</a></div>
    </div>
</div>
```

2. In the configuration in the Adobe Launch Console, add the following:
- Event Name: Any name to identifies the event.
- CSS Class Name of the HTML DOM element that contains the dataset.

### Convert after Search
1. "Convert after Search" action requires two query params added to the url. Below is an example:

```
<a href="product.html?objectID=${hit.objectID}&amp;queryID=${hit.__queryID}">Read More</a></div>
```

2. In the configuration in the Adobe Launch Console, add the following:
- Event Name: Any name to identifies the event.
- CSS Class Name of the HTML DOM element that contains the dataset.

*This extension is not supported or maintained by Algolia*.

## Development & Release
For development and release process, you can refer to the [Adobe Launch Extension development page](https://experienceleague.adobe.com/docs/experience-platform/tags/extension-dev/submit/develop.html).

### Scaffold
The command provides a way to add actions, data elements, and events assets.
```
npx @adobe/reactor-scaffold
```

### Sandbox
The command starts a local development environment for Launch extension development.
```
npx @adobe/reactor-sandbox
```

### Packager
The command packages the Launch extension places the file at the root of the folder.
```
npx @adobe/reactor-packager
```

### Upload
The command uploads the package to the targeted Adobe Launch service in Adobe IO.
```
npx @adobe/reactor-uploader --private-key=<LOCATION of PRIVATE-KEY> --org-id=<ORG-ID> --tech-account-id=<TEST-ACCOUNT-ID> --api-key=<API-KEY> --client-secret=<CLIENT-SECRET>
```

### Release
The command releases the package to be installed for use.
```
npx @adobe/reactor-releaser --private-key=<LOCATION of PRIVATE-KEY> --org-id=<ORG-ID> --tech-account-id=<TEST-ACCOUNT-ID> --api-key=<API-KEY> --client-secret=<CLIENT-SECRET>
```
